Eventing configuration doc (#569)
kyma-incubator/compass: docs/architecture/default-eventing-for-application.md

# Default eventing for application

## Introduction

The Director as the main component which manages the information for Applications and Runtimes is responsible also for providing eventing configurations. The following document describes the process of determining which runtime should be configured to process the Applications' events.

> **NOTE** Currently only one Runtime can receive events from the Application

> Application can obtain the eventing configuration from the Directors API. It is done via the `application(id: ID!): Application`. The `Application` type offers the `eventingConfiguration` property which holds the `defaultURL` property that contains the URL to the eventing backend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An application can obtain the eventing configuration from the Director's API using the `application(id: ID!): Application`. The `Application` type offers the **eventingConfiguration** property that holds the **defaultURL** property with the URL to the eventing backend.
```

> If the value of `defaultURL` is an empty string, it means that there is no Runtime assigned that can process the Application events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the value of the **defaultURL** parameter is an empty string, it means that there is no Runtime assigned that can process the Application events.
```

## Determining default Runtime for the Application events

> When querying `eventingConfiguration` for the `Application` type the Director component tries to determine the default Runtime that will process the events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When querying **eventingConfiguration** for the `Application` type, the Director component tries to determine the default Runtime that will process the events.

```

> In the first step, it looks whether there is a Runtime that has the following label assigned `{APPLICATION_ID}/defaultEventing = true` and the runtime belongs to one of the application scenarios. If there is no such runtime, the Director looks for the oldest Runtime that is assigned to the Application scenarios. After having found the oldest Runtime, it is labeled with the label `{APPLICATION_ID}/defaultEventing = true` and next time it will be treated as the default one. Having the default Runtime determined, the Director component fetches its eventing URL and returns as `defaultURL` for the `eventingConfiguration`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the first step, it searches for a Runtime that belongs to one of the Application's scenarios and has the `{APPLICATION_ID}/defaultEventing = true` label assigned. If there is no such Runtime, the Director looks for the oldest Runtime that is assigned to the Application's scenarios. After finding the oldest Runtime, it is labeled with the `{APPLICATION_ID}/defaultEventing = true` label and next time, it will be treated as the default one. Having the default Runtime determined, the Director component fetches its eventing URL and returns as **defaultURL** for the **eventingConfiguration**.
```

> When the Director is unable to find the default Runtime then the `defaultURL` for the `eventingConfiguration` is an empty string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the Director is unable to find the default Runtime, the **defaultURL** for the **eventingConfiguration** is an empty string.
```

## Changing the default Runtime assigned for the Application eventing

> The Director API offers a mutation that allows assigning the default runtime for the Application eventing. The mutation `setDefaultEventingForApplication(appID: String!, runtimeID: String!): ApplicationEventingConfiguration!` verifies whether the given Runtime belongs to the Application scenarios and labels it with the label `{APPLICATION_ID}/defaultEventing = true`. If the Application had previously assigned default runtime the label from that runtime is removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Director API offers a mutation that allows for assigning the default Runtime for the Application eventing. The `setDefaultEventingForApplication(appID: String!, runtimeID: String!): ApplicationEventingConfiguration!` mutation verifies whether the given Runtime belongs to the Application's scenarios and labels it with the `{APPLICATION_ID}/defaultEventing = true` label. If the Application had previously assigned default Runtime, the label from that Runtime is removed.
```

> ## Deleteing the default Runtime assigned for the Application eventing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Deleting the default Runtime assigned for the Application eventing
```

> The Directors API offers a mutation that allows deleting the assignment of the default runtime for the Application eventing. The mutation `deleteDefaultEventingForApplication(appID: String!): ApplicationEventingConfiguration!` deletes the label `{APPLICATION_ID}/defaultEventing = true` from the labeled Runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Directors API offers a mutation that allows for deleting the assignment of the default Runtime for the Application eventing. The `deleteDefaultEventingForApplication(appID: String!): ApplicationEventingConfiguration!` mutation deletes the `{APPLICATION_ID}/defaultEventing = true` label from the labeled Runtime.
```

> > **NOTE** After deleting the label `{APPLICATION_ID}/defaultEventing = true` and querying for the `eventingConfiguration` for the Application, the Director API will determine the default Runtime for the Application once again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>**NOTE:** After deleting the `{APPLICATION_ID}/defaultEventing = true` label and querying for the **eventingConfiguration** for the Application, the Director API determines the default Runtime for the Application once again.
```
